Sources
Lamport L, Shostak R, Pease M. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Trans Program Lang Syst. New York, NY, USA: ACM; 1982;4: 382–401. doi:10.1145/357172.357176 
Lamport L. The Part-time Parliament. ACM Trans Comput Syst. New York, NY, USA: ACM; 1998;16: 133–169. doi:10.1145/279227.279229
Rozas, David, Antonio Tenorio-Fornés, Silvia Díaz-Molina, and Samer Hassan. 2021. “When Ostrom Meets blockchain: Exploring the Potentials of blockchain for Commons Governance”. SAGE Open 11. https://doi.org/10.1177/21582440211002526
Baylis, Imogen, Harris Beider, and Mike Hardy. 2019. Cohesive Societies: Literature Review. The British Academy. ISBN: 978-0-85672-632-1. Accessible from: Cohesive Societies Literature Review | The British Academy
Rasborg, Klaus. 2021. Ulrich Beck. Cham: Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89201-2.
Popper, Karl R. Open Society and its Enemies. 1945
May, Timothy C. The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto. 1992. Accessible from: https://libinst.cz/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/havel.pdf?fbclid=IwAR2Yup0KSFgGDnTlp5rqPDL3FcgoFo8ypFrEW8poTQl11GHyDVK6rznQrNU 
Hettinga, Robert. The Geodesic Market. 1998. Accessible from: The Geodesic Market | Satoshi Nakamoto Institute 
Muirhead, Russell, and Nancy L. Rosenblum. 2020. “The Political Theory of Parties and Partisanship: Catching Up”. Annual Review of Political Science 23 (1): 95-110. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-polisci-041916-020727.
Marshall, Peter H. 1993. “Demanding the Impossible”. Accessible from: Demanding the Impossible | The Anarchist Library
Gordon, David. 2011. “Sam Konkin and Libertarian Theory”. Accessible from: Revealing the State as Pure Evil
Von Mises, Ludwig. 1949. Human Action: A Treatise on Economics. 1st ed. United States: Yale University Press, Ludwig von Mises Institute.
 Nakamoto, Satoshi. 2007. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. Accessible from: Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System
Coinshares. The Bitcoin Mining Network. 2022. Accessible from: The Bitcoin Mining Network 
de Vries, Alex, Ulrich Gallersdörfer, Lena Klaaßen, and Christian Stoll. 2022. “Revisiting Bitcoin’s carbon footprint”. Joule 6 (3): 498-502. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2022.02.005.
Judt, Tony. 2010. Ill Fares the Land: Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates, and men decay.
Anotace
This article will analyze fundamental principles and options of community formation and governance. According to accumulated sources the genealogical options for community formation are - based on free market principles/centrist/socialist. This text will not focus on centrist solutions, but rather focus mainly on community formation based on decentralization and free market principles while being suitable for socialists that do not oppose money itself, as the framework that will be outlined throughout the text cannot be separated from it.

An extensive literature review of what makes societies cohesive will be utilized to uncover the basis of community formation. The text will delve into the topic of anarchism and will try to use it to uncover a common ground between capitalist and socialist ideologies. Karl Popper's philosophy of inverse totalitarian/liberal poles and their unique consequences on society will be introduced. Timothy C. May's (Cypherpunks' stance in general) vision of the futuristic evolution of societies based on voluntary and cryptographically secured interactions utilizing unalterable liberal money will be introduced and explained.

In addition to that, technologies that have directly emerged from the Cypherpunk community and its predecessors that directly support execution of those visions - such as asymmetric cryptography and proof of work - will be explained too. Combination of (not only) those technologies, which was done within the Cypherpunk community, led to the emergence of Bitcoin - the first implementation of blockchain. It will be subsequently showcased why blockchain technology is a very plausible digital solution to community governance. Firstly, the oldest extant governance model used in ancient Paxos, closely resembling blockchain technology, will be briefly examined. It will then be shown that Bitcoin is historically the best solution for The Byzantine General Problem and should be preferred over other blockchain solutions as its validity can be mathematically proven. Finally, a framework suitable for governance and formation of reputation algorithms based on the LNP/BP standard of protocols will be introduced.
Introduction
According to an extensive literature review on cohesive societies the genealogical options for community formation are - based on free market principles/centrist/socialist. While all the authors in that review see capitalism and socialism as direct opposites and most of the times define themselves against the other group, the topic of centralization and decentralization doesn't get comparable traction. The vast majority of authors is pro-centrist, oftentimes very explicitly. Advocates of decentralized systems are rather scarce - on top of that the support of decentralization is rather implicit. [4]

Although the source [4] provides invaluable insight into fundamental principles and options of community formation and governance, all the authors think in the unchallenged paradigm of States except for the father of libertarian school of thought - Adam Smith - who supposedly derived his ideas from John Locke [4] who advocated voluntarism. When one takes the existence of a State as given, at one point one naturally implements centralization of communities - the difference being the layer of granularity at which the centralization is implemented.

Thus said, the otherwise excellent source must be supplemented as its lack of balance of centralization/decentralization paradigm comparison is apparent. For that purpose, Adam Smith's philosophical lineage will be further analyzed. He was the ideological source of Austrian economy founding fathers, such as Ludwig Von Mises and Friedrich Hayek. Austrian economists extrapolated the concept of decentralization into economic and sociological theories through multitude of scholarly texts such as The Theory of Money and Credit (1912), The Road to Serfdom (1944), The Use of Knowledge in Society (1945), Human Action (1949) or The Denationalization of Money (1976). Austrian economists advocated against the control over the market and money itself usurped by States which effectively centralized the systems through a centrally planned economy.

The Austrian economy brings us to another prominent and relevant philosopher - Karl Popper. He knew plenty of Austrian economists and collaborated with them. His approach was though much less economic and more politological/sociological.
In his text Open Society and its Enemies Karl Popper describes societies as an endless quarrel between totalitarian/authoritarian pole and “open” pole consisting of freedom, plurality and maximal personal responsibility. He explains that when the societies lean towards the totalitarian pole even slightly it ends in carnages, complete control and loss of freedom. On the other hand, leaning towards the “open” pole would (would as it wasn't done in his time nor until 2022) transform the society into a plural entity where State borders become irrelevant, people can transact and interact with each other without knowing each other, while everyone is completely responsible for their human actions. Popper explicitly conceives “society in which men practically never meet face to face—in which all business is conducted by individuals in isolation who communicate by typed letters or by telegrams, where membership of a trade union may mean no more than the possession of a membership card and the payment of a contribution to an unknown secretary.” [6]
His text could also be interpreted as centralized control vs. decentralized responsibility. 

Note that his theory was published in 1945 and that in 2022 anonymous monetary transactions and untraceable and secure communication (which Popper directly conceived as “contribution of any sort to an unknown secretary” is impossible without it) directly implies usage of encrypted tools and commodities. Popper concentrated on the societal questions/consequences and only presented technicalities accessible at his time, namely telegrams and typed letters (not dealing with the problem of anonymous monetary transactions at all). Thus said, the technicalities that humanity has at its disposal today were unknown and those at humanity's disposal back then wouldn't fulfill the necessary job today. His ideas therefore directly imply usage of encryption as anonymous communication of money and chat is unreachable without encryption from today's perspective.


There were communities that not only extended Karl Popper's idea but have done rigorous scientific work towards its actual implementation through technology inventions. The most executive community being the Cypherpunk. Not only they invented plenty of necessary technologies themselves, but they began the work on the technological puzzle - the right combination of the right technologies in the right layers to pull the idea off.

Timothy C. May, the father of Cypherpunk, wrote The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto, where he envisioned a similar society as Karl Popper did, but expressed it…more bluntly. As he was a cryptographer himself, he started the explanation of which technologies will enable this vision. [7]

Much more in-depth explanation came from a fellow Cypherpunker Robert Hettinga in his text The Geodesic Market. He managed to analyze, describe and explain from the technical point of view exactly which technologies (in existence in 1999) would need to be used in order to execute Karl Popper's and Timothy C. May's ideas using his “mildly drug-addled mind” [8] It's just, back then some puzzle pieces didn't exist yet. Namely unalterable liberal money and something to measure reputation with - which he frequently spoke of.

Thus said, Austrian economists, Karl Popper, Cypherpunk - they all argue that sustainable free (non-authoritative) societies can only be achieved when no one is entrusted with the control over the society as a whole, its foundation (layer 1) or any other layer up until its technical possibility. When it is built and remains decentralized. (Premise 1)
This text will concentrate on analysis of decentralized options for sustainable and cohesive societies and will not pursue centrist solutions at any point, as they can be easily corrupted and dismantle the society when deemed profitable by any involved third party.
Capitalism vs. Socialism
The premise that “sustainable and non-authoritative societies can only be achieved when no one is entrusted with the control over the society as a whole, its foundation (layer 1) or any other layer up until its technical possibility” was formulated in the first chapter of the text.
Through the lens of this premise the endless quarrel between capitalism and socialism will be analyzed next.

But first let's iterate on consequences that happen when thinkers that identify with one of the opposing sides do think in the paradigm of States:

Politics-wise (in the democratic systems), one of the sides gets to decide with minimal incentives to reach consensus with the other side. In democratic systems the majority of effective votes gains the ability to make new laws - meaning the majority of effective votes rules for a certain period of time. As the most common governance system all around the world is representative democracy, the law-making-right is divided between up to few hundreds of politicians. Most of the politicians are part of parties that identify with one side. Even parties that declare themselves impartial can be analyzed through their actual votes regarding individual law proposals - by nature even those “impartial” parties lean towards one of the sides. 
The only incentive to reach consensus exists within one of the opposing sides in order to uniformly vote in favor of the law proposed by their side, provided it has the majority - consensus has to be reached about the proposed law, not with the community as a whole. The result being an endless ideological war. [9]
The status quo as we know it today too suffers from the consequences of the above-mentioned political theory as “the center of gravity of political argument in the years after 1945 lay not between left and right but rather within the left: between communists and their sympathizers and the mainstream liberal-social-democratic consensus.” [16]

Science-wise - some scholars concentrate on a correlation between individual observed facts and the ideology maintained by a State in the observed part of the world. To give an example, Blanco, Chatzidakis, Albinsson and Pererra argue that practices such as sharing and reciprocity need to be analyzed within their structural and political context and that those practices can be rooted in ideologies such as green, anti-capitalist, anti-consumerist. [4] (in this text simply referred to as socialist).
Another example is scholar Ash Amin who argues that “social economy is on mainstreaming trajectory as the thirst emerges for post-capitalist possibility based on social participation and an explicit ethic of care. He gives the examples of ‘crèches, community farms, waste recycling projects, ethical trade and alternative finance ventures’ which are increasingly being viewed as creating work opportunities and new markets, as well as empowering ‘disadvantaged communities’ rather than being relegated to the periphery of socio-economic activity”. [4]
What all the above-mentioned examples have in common is they are situated in a context of State withdrawal in extremely poor locations [4]. A super important and unmentioned fact is whether the State withdrawal is accompanied by a significant reduction of taxes in order for the affected people to have enough money to effectively help with the acquisition of non-State solutions. All Austrian economists would uniformly agree that is never the case - quite the contrary. And that is a fault of the State, not capitalism itself. That partially explains the mistargeted “hate” against capitalism.

In addition to that, it is not only a question of money, but rather historical macro-societal decisions. Postwar decades in general coincided with some of the worst town planning and public housing of modern times. Civilization has run on “authority knows best” status quo ever since then (and arguably even prior to war…simply since the dawn of civilization as we know it) and the damage lingers still. Postwar era was defined by uncontrolled and insensitive power abuse, instead of socially responsible modernization on behalf of the community, thus the social gulf widened. [16] Even times of deregulation were State-centric and abused from within by well-connected members of society.

Conflict is eternally interwoven with the topic of capitalism/socialism across generations. Both sides cyclically fall off, reform and emerge, but the conflict never resolves [16]. Yet it isn't impossible to find significant intersections. In order to do so, one has to delve into the topic of anarchism. Within anarchist topics exist not only intersections, but whole hardly distinguishable movements. Provided one crawls through the history of eternal conflict even in the topic of anarchism.

Anarchism is historically a socialist movement that defines itself strictly against capitalism, the State and hierarchy and is pro voluntary associations [10]. There are many anarchist schools of thoughts that significantly differ in the perceived solution to capitalism and the State problem namely - Anarcho: Primitivism, Communism, Mutualism, Syndicalism, Individualism, Agorism and more.

Only two of the mentioned anarchist schools of thought refuse to use any form of money - Primitivism and Communism. As Primitivism opposes not only money, but also all technologies, it is unfortunately incompatible with the theory that will be presented throughout the text. Communism can be compatible, provided it respects voluntary choice of money usage and would be willing to acquire a minimal amount of money to set up and maintain contracts (will be further explained).

The rest of the mentioned anarchist schools of thought are pro-money and pro-market. The significant distinction of Mutualism, Syndicalism and Individualism from capitalism though remains opposition against accumulation of capital, wage labor and profession of labor theory of value. [10] A significant difference, but not one where compromises cannot be reached.

A particularly important philosopher is Samuel Edward Konkin III who coined the term Agorism. The term “agora” in ancient Greek referred to an open place for assembly and market in polis. Konkin was one of the first socialist anarchist philosophers that was openly very influenced by Ludvig von Mises and Murry Rothbard. Konkin argues that people should withdraw their consent to state by devoting their economic activities to black and gray markets - which he called counter-economics, effectively forming Agoras where entrepreneurs would peacefully transact together. [11] This idea closely resembles Karl Popper's and Timothy C. May's visions.

Konkin and Rothbard both admired each other despite their philosophical differences. Konkin argued against free individuals working for others, thus waging economic activities outside of Agoras as companies would hardly be ignored by the State. Rothbard argued it is economically impossible. [11] Thanks to Cypherpunk efforts, this problem was mitigated to a great extent [8].

Agorism closely resembles Anarcho-Capitalism, a movement and term coined by Murry Rothbard. Anarcho-Capitalism stands for absolute private property and free society based on voluntary contracts conducted in a completely free market [10]. 
Unfortunately, “in fact, few anarchists would accept the 'anarcho-capitalists' into the anarchist camp since they do not share a concern for economic equality and social justice, their self-interested, calculating market men would be incapable of practising voluntary co-operation and mutual aid. Anarcho-capitalists, even if they do reject the State, might therefore best be called right-wing libertarians rather than anarchists".[10] Although the argument itself is invalid, there are significant differences between the two “anarchisms”. The problem is not that Anarcho-Capitalists wouldn't share the concern for economic and social justice, they argue that it should be achieved through different means, maybe they perceive the “justice” differently altogether - and socialists disagree with the means and perception arguing that it wouldn't lead to laid out goals, which is totally valid opinion. 
Completely invalid is the second part of the statement, where the author claims that “calculating market men would be incapable of practising voluntary cooperation and mutual aid.” People that proclaimed themselves Anarcho-Capitalists have for example sent millions of dollars to Ukraine during the invasion of Ukraine, forfeited thousands of Bitcoins (millions of dollars) in order to save the decentralized cooperative network while it still was young and weak and did many other deeds that refute such a short-sighted statement.

Nevertheless, pinpointing the difference between the original anarchist camp (representing socialism) and Anarcho-Capitalists (representing capitalism) could bring us closer to uncovering a suitable framework where both camps could live peacefully together as they both share libertarian ancestors. 
Konkin and Rothbard knew this, that's why they frequently engaged in discussion and challenged each other's thoughts and oftentimes influenced each other. [11] We should all learn from their example.

As to the differences:

Both camps calculate prices differently - socialists prefer labor theory of value (not unisonly - Agorism), capitalists prefer subjective theory of value.
Both camps are pro-voluntary associations. Capitalists are consistent, yet socialists are against even voluntary hierarchy - which undisputedly is a voluntary association.
Both camps are pro-money and pro-market (except Primitivism and Communism).
Mutualism, Syndicalism and Individualism are against accumulation of capital.
Both camps are against coercion - the problem is that they disagree where and how it happens. Socialists believe it comes from economic inequality and social injustice, Capitalists believe it comes from inability to form any kind of voluntary association and due to the economic inefficiency of the State.

Obviously, it is impossible to pinpoint one school of thought where both camps align. Although it is possible to pinpoint one that is the closest to both camps - Agorism.

Agorism advocates for voluntary markets without specification of theory of value.
Agorism advocates for sovereign entrepreneurs because of physical limitations that existed at that time, although technologies that support the manifestation of  decentralized corporations sought by Syndicalist and Mutualists (non-hierarchical), while enabling Capitalist to engage in similar decentralized corporations or form hierarchical ones are already functioning and in the name of voluntarism could be pursued.
Agorism is pro-money and pro-market.
Agorism allows for both approaches - accumulation and anti-accumulation of capital (it will be further explained why the institution that hinders accumulation of capital the most in society is hard money itself).
as to e) both camps may need to agree that they disagree and allow the other camp to exercise their beliefs of what freedom is and allow them to test those beliefs in a transparent way in their community.

Decentralized communities by design have to be built in a bottom-up way. By design creation of societies according to “Premise 1” will start by creation of many offsets that differ when it comes to important questions (one offset could be for example Syndicalism, the other Capitalism). As long as the offsets agree on the “framework” (which for now can be envisioned as the above-mentioned premise) they can be counted as part of one free open society despite the fact that they grow at different speeds and in different philosophical directions according to their beliefs. 

Thus, I argue that capitalism and socialism are very compatible in their fundamental layer of community formation provided the path of decentralization and voluntarism was chosen (which all anarchist camps have in common). The two schools of thought differ in economic and societal questions, which does not necessarily hinder the ability of coexistence in a decentralized environment deliberately set up to support such a coexistence in the spirit of Karl Popper's open society theory.

At the end, the goal is to exercise freedom within sustainable and cohesive communities of any size. The goal is not to build another State, but an environment where communities of any size can co-exist and cooperate as much as they are willing to. 

For the purpose of this theory individual communities will from now on be called Agoras through the remainder of the text, paying tribute to the most middle ground anarchist school of thought and its author Samuel Edward Konkin III.
Money
So far, the text settled on two premises:

Premise 1 = “Sustainable and non-authoritative societies can only be achieved when no one is entrusted with the control over the society as a whole, its foundation (layer 1) or any other layer up until its technical possibility”

Premise from chapter 2 is formulated as follows “Even huge philosophical differences do not hinder coexistence and cooperation of Agoras provided they agree on a mutual “framework”, forming blossomy offsets that grow at different speeds and cooperate on a voluntary basis in the spirit of open society theory in a bottom-up process. Due to the separation of important questions where consensus has not been reached into separate offsets an endless ideological war ever present in democracy shall be mitigated within individual Agoras. On top of that the framework shall help with resolution of inter-Agora ideological disputes.” (Premise 2)

As the “framework” (will be further discussed) mentioned in Premise 2 is pro-market and pro-money, it is vital to uncover which money adheres to Premise 1 and should be used within and across Agoras.

Money is an institution that is vulnerable to central control for numerous reasons. An effect that enables unfair accumulation of money is called Cantillon effect. It describes how already wealthy people with connections to banks and government heavily profit when supply of money is being inflated. This effect suggests that it is not “capitalism” to be blamed for unhealthy accumulation of capital, but the flawed concept of centralized (thus controlled) money itself.

Another effect directly tied to fiat currency is unhealthy inflation. Inflation is according to Austrian economists simply an increase in supply of money and credit. This increase of supply ought to be controlled, but eventually is predetermined to fail. What such a failure causes is massive loss of purchasing power of the money over time. It therefore robs all the people that were not able to ditch the money in time or did not accumulate enough purchasing power to buy commodities that do not suffer from loss of purchasing power. Inflation is therefore a well-hidden tax that is hard to uncover and circumvent for people that aren't well economically educated. [12] 

Inflation and Cantillon effects are linked. Its fusion enables a) people in control of money and b) State + people with direct connection to a) and b), to perform economic actions that save their balances at the expense of the common people. It can be done by using the knowledge of what is going to happen in the future to perform investments into stocks that will soon receive an influx of newly printed money or simply invest into commodities such as gold to preserve purchasing power. Meanwhile the common people still hold fiat currency that has lost a significant percentage of its purchasing power. Thus, economic injustice and inequality grows. Something that both socialists and capitalists despise.

Austrian economists, Karl Popper, Cypherpunk community - they all knew, or at least implied the need for decentralized unalterable liberal money. And there is precisely one candidate that does fulfill this role - Bitcoin.

Cypherpunk
The time has come to present the historical effort of the Cypherpunk community to create decentralized unalterable liberal money.
It dates back to a conflict between cryptographers and the USA in the 70s. The USA for a long time exercised its power through complete surveillance. Its most atrocious act up until the 70s was arguably The New Deal consecrated by Roosevelt. Through it the government effectively stole all the gold from its citizens utilizing banks and its data to locate the holders of the gold. The gold was bought out for a fixed price. Defiance was threatened to be punished as hard as possible - by 10 years in jail or by an immensely high fine. As soon as all the gold was gathered the dollar: gold ratio was artificially changed effectively robbing all the citizens of almost 50% of their gold purchasing power at that moment - by much more from today's perspective.

Back in the 70s scientist Martin Hellman was researching cryptography which by design restricts any entity from observing ciphered data - a huge problem for the USA utilizing surveillance to exercise its power. The National Security Agency (NSA) on behalf of the state did everything possible to keep all the scientific knowledge about cryptography behind closed doors. One of the scientists working for NSA was Whitfield Diffie. Through a contact in NSA Diffie obtained a contact to Hellman and arranged a meeting. The two started working together and came up with Diffie-Hellman Public Key Cryptography - asymmetric cryptography was born.

Asymmetric cryptography was a novel invention as it allowed 2 entities to communicate without any third party having any chance to decrypt the communicated message if done correctly. That was thorn in the side of the USA. Therefore, around the 90s it declared war against asymmetric cryptography itself, common people using it and the scientists working on the topic outside of the USAs direct control - labeling it “illegal modern digital weapon” and anyone who participated in its usage a criminal. It was back then when Timothy C. May united cryptographers and formed the Cypherpunk community.

A breakthrough in this conflict happened around Phill Zimmerman's “digital weapon” called Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) in 1993. The Cypherpunk community struck back using an “analog method”. Zimmerman himself started printing books with PGP's open-source code. Adam Beck (whose importance will be stressed later) printed T-shirts with PGP code. Some of the Cypherpunks even tattooed parts of the code onto their bodies. The “land of free” (which it provably wasn't anymore due to atrocities committed on its people directly refuting freedom) couldn't possibly ban books. And even if they did, the war would be lost anyway. One cannot beat mathematical laws the same way one cannot beat the laws of physics - one can only play according to its rules. There was no real way to “stop” asymmetric cryptography, therefore its ban was lifted.

Since asymmetric cryptography was legal again, Cypherpunk began to invent around that technology even more. There were two most prominent offsets - one concentrating on creation of tools that help against the surveillance over one's data, the other on creation of decentralized, liberal and unalterable money. The latter is relevant for this text and will be introduced in detail.

Chronological order of attempts: eCash, Hashcash, B-money, RPOW/BitGold and Bitcoin. Each attempt brought something unique to the table. I shall concentrate on the uniqueness of each attempt - overall in-depth technical description is not necessary for the purpose of this text. 

David Chaum alongside Nick Szabo created eCash. eCash was utilizing Blind Signatures to create a system for anonymous micropayments. The system though relied on banks and was transferring fiat currency. Liberal money cannot be centralized - therefore it failed. Blind Signatures remain utilized up until now in all sorts of digital payments. 

Adam Beck created Hashcash. Proof of Work (PoW) was previously used against email spam and was kind of a cryptographic riddle. Hashcash transforms the riddle into a hashing trick utilizing SHA-1, which has to be brute forced as it's a one-way function (which means it cannot be gamed by any logical means - unlike riddle - and the only way to brute force the algorithm is to provably expend CPU power). Hashcash was still used in association with email communication. It was still fighting email spams, but instead of demanding micropayment from the sender to validate that the email is not a spam, hashing power was “tokenized” instead through PoW. Hashcash was not technically money itself, but PoW and its tokenization of resources expended in the physical realm is an immensely crucial invention of “digital scarcity” and will be explained in the next chapter in more detail.
 
Wei Dai created B-money as a direct possible solution for Timothy C. May's vision of Crypto Anarchy. He proposed two protocols, where the first one resembled Bitcoin to a great extent, utilizing PoW. Unfortunately, the proposed protocol has not found an answer to the Double-spending problem, to which all the decentralized monetary systems were prone to since the first attempts. Wei Dai also proposed a suboptimal solution to emission of the money.

Hal Finey created RPOW. RPOW has solved all the above-mentioned problems except inflation of the monetary supply due to a “cheat”. RPOW was an open-source code, but it ran on a centralized server. Apart from that it was still directly associated with emails, which is not desired.

Nick Szabo created BitGold. He also coined terms “unforgeable scarcity” and “unforgeably costly bits”. BitGold was the closest to liberal unalterable money learning from the mistakes of his ancestors, but ultimately failing due to few missteps. Nick Szabo did not deal with Moore's law, therefore with inflation of the monetary supply. He also implemented a suboptimal solution to the Byzantine General Problem (BGP) - simple Byzantine Quorum where 51% of traitorous nodes would irreversibly break the system (BGP will also be explained in the next chapter).

And finally - Satoshi Nakamoto created Bitcoin.
Bitcoin
In chapter “Money” it was stated that Bitcoin fulfills the role of decentralized liberal unalterable money. In this chapter the argumentation why that is the case will be presented. On top of that it will be presented why Bitcoin is much more than that and why it can serve as a perfect candidate the society's “framework” utilizing several Smart Contracts should be built upon.

First, the Byzantine General Problem has to be explained. It is an analogous description of a situation where several entities have to cooperate in order to avoid critical failure. It is an inherent computer science logical dilemma how to ensure avoidance of a critical failure in decentralized systems. The problem is described through Byzantine generals, lieutenants and messengers in an analogous conversion. The army can have a certain number of rogue generals, lieutenants and messengers which can spread false information to the rest of the generals, which can then act undesirably. The aim is to either get the command to launch an attack to honest generals above the “critical failure” threshold, or retreat in unison. The premise is that if enough generals attack in unison, victory is inevitable. If they retreat, they don't get their men killed for nothing, can regroup and try again. Critical failure would happen if a critical threshold of men gets killed in an asynchronous attack. [1]

The relevance of BGP lies in the fact that critical failure of decentralized liberal unalterable money would irreversibly break the system. Whoever would obtain control over the system would have endless power to change the history of transactions, print new money and censor the opposition. Such an event would cause a lot of despair, violence and chaos within the society. It cannot be stressed enough that this outcome cannot happen under any circumstances! Creation of decentralized money built on a system that is not provably mathematically Byzantine fault tolerant is a hazardous endeavor. 

Now it can be explained why Bitcoin not only learned from the mistakes of all its predecessors and finished the “puzzle”, but why at the same time the system is the best Byzantine fault tolerant monetary system (maybe system in general) ever created.

On the verge of 2007-2008 Satoshi Nakamoto released Bitcoin code. It emerged after almost 20 years of the Cypherpunks' effort to create decentralized liberal money. It combined the best features from its predecessors and solved all the problems that they didn't find the answer to. Its architecture resembled B-money and BitGold quite a bit. Satoshi even contacted Wei Dai personally to inform him that he had solved problems that B-money did not find an answer to.

Firstly, Bitcoin came up with the most suitable way of PoW utilization in order to create a mathematically secure Byzantine fault tolerant system. The PoW proves that individual blocks and their content (up to 1MB prior to 2017) have not been altered as it would break the chain of cryptographic hashes. Utilizing a feature called Difficulty adjustment, the Bitcoin network establishes a situation where a new block is always found roughly 10 minutes after the previous one no matter how much hashing power is currently securing the system. For an attacker this means that he would need to gather 51%+ of the network's hashing power (which cannot be done unnoticed due to lack of chips on the market) and spend more electricity than the rest of the honest network combined, while still producing only one block every <10 mins. This situation would need to be maintained for a ridiculous amount of time in order to temper with the blockchain history as all the blocks starting from the one that is to be tempered with have to be mined again through PoW, burning all the electricity once more - the situation is close to impossible. DOSing the future block is less impossible, yet very implausible stil when it comes to maintaining such a state. [13] 

A little digression is in order. One can often hear that the Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism should be used instead of PoW as it doesn't burn a significant amount of electricity and is thus “better”. It is a commonly occuring argument even in scientific papers. While PoS comes with many advantages it is important to understand that its Byzantine fault tolerance is much less reliable. As PoS systems require 0 computational effort to sign a block, as soon as a fraudulent entity gains control of 51% of the staked coins, it can redo the whole blockchain history. All those scientific papers demonstrate complete lack of understanding of the importance of BGP. Immutability is not an intrinsic feature of blockchain, it is an intrinsic feature of massive PoW systems! 

PoW not only makes Bitcoin immutable but it also solves the previously encountered problems with money creation and inflation of decentralized monetary systems. Bitcoin has predetermined monetary policy which rewards miners with BTC, until 21 mil. BTC is mined in total - which deals with money creation. The reward halves every roughly 4 years - which deals with uncontrollable inflation. [13]

Upon the realization of what Bitcoin protocol is, an attentive reader would probably realize that Bitcoin may not be the money that would support Karl Popper's, Timothy C. May's and Robert Hettiga's vision. It is only pseudonymous, not fully anonymous. It also cannot scale globally due to block congestion. The above explanation of Bitcoin did not cover its upgrades and additional layers. In 2017 Segregated Witness (SegWit) upgrade was launched. It segregated the transactions and their signatures within each block into separate Merkle Trees which utilized the block space much more effectively. It also dealt with a bug called Transaction Malleability which enabled unhindered operations of “Second Layer” Smart Contract called Lightning Network (LN). Due to LN Bitcoin can directly connect people globally and scale up to an “infinite” amount of transactions per second.
It is important to note Bitcoin supports huge amounts of similar P2P smart contracts (see LNP/BP ecosystem) - for instance it is capable of running society's “framework'', which will be introduced in the next chapter, as users can utilize its blockspace to timestamp hashed metadata either directly, or via many LNP/BP protocols.

In 2022 SegWit1 upgrade was launched, introducing Schnorr Signatures and Taproot. Using those technologies the block space is being utilized even more effectively. On top of that a much higher level of anonymity has been introduced. Schnorr Signatures are being used for instance in the protocol known for its highest level of anonymity among cryptocurrencies - Monero. This means that implementation of Schnorr Signatures opens doors to installation of Monero-like procedures where transaction inputs are being aggregated (Cross-input Aggregation). Such a technology would create this paradox - completely transparent Bitcoin database enabling users to engage in completely anonymous mode. Suddenly the Crypto Anarchist vision of open society utilizing Bitcoin makes much more sense. My personal estimate is such an update will take 2-6 years to implement.

It is important to note that there is no way to beat mathematics by proposed laws. People can easily disguise their Bitcoin connected actions using Tor network. Such laws would be rendered unenforceable.

In summary, Bitcoin solved the Double-spend problem. It solved the problem with money creation (Block reward) and inflation (Halving cycle), setting up a transparent and predictable monetary policy. It dealt with Moore's law using simple Difficulty adjustment. Although it remains only pseudonymous for now, by the implementation of Segwit, Segwit1 (Schnorr Signatures and Taproot) it escalated its way towards implementation of Monero-like Cross-input Aggregation which will enable Bitcoin to be fully transparent database while giving the option to its users to gain complete anonymity. Bitcoin users and miners can disguise their online activities and are impossible to locate for the government unless they (the miners) spend way too much electricity (in which case they can be located similarly to marihuana grow houses). It is not an ecological disaster and most importantly it is virtually impossible to break its Byzantine fault tolerance due to the PoW, which is not the case in PoS systems. It is vital to use Bitcoin blockchain as the underlying technology on which decentralized “framework” of the society should be built upon as it is the only provably decentralized immutable database and monetary system in the world.
Framework
Framework is the last chapter and will sum up the text by presenting the last piece of puzzle needed in order for Agoras to be able to execute the visionary system of “open society” as prophesied by Karl Popper, Robert Hettinga and many others.

Premise 1 = “Sustainable and non-authoritative societies can only be achieved when no one is entrusted with the control over the society as a whole, its foundation (layer 1) or any other layer up until its technical possibility”.

Premise 2 = “Even huge philosophical differences do not hinder coexistence and cooperation of Agoras provided they agree on a mutual “framework”, forming blossomy offsets that grow at different speeds and cooperate on a voluntary basis in the spirit of open society theory in a bottom-up process. Due to the separation of important questions where consensus has not been reached into separate offsets an endless ideological war ever present in democracy shall be mitigated within individual Agoras. On top of that the framework shall help with resolution of inter-Agora ideological disputes.”

Premise 3 = “Bitcoin is the only monetary system in the world that adheres to Premise 1 while being a database/Timechain that allows creation of Smart Contracts within the LNP/BP ecosystem. The whole ecosystem will serve as a “framework” for the open society of Agoras.”

As Bitcoin is the only truly unalterable decentralized system that cannot be controlled by any third party, it has to serve as the foundation of the open society. It may sound far-fetched to base a society on blockchain technology. It isn't. 
In fact, our civilization has already tried something similar in the past. There was an ancient civilization that lived on Paxos island. It was an offset of Ancient Greeks that governed itself with a nuanced form of old-school democracy. Their mathematicians were tasked to create a governance system that would enable part-time members of parliament (part-time as most of them were traders and didn't have time to govern full-time) to efficiently run the system. Members of the parliament operated with individual unalterable ledgers and were updating each other when present in the chamber. In a nutshell, Paxos mathematicians invented a blockchain-like algorithm that helped Paxos people with its governance for decades. [2]

Thousands of years later Bitcoin and its LNP/BP standard ecosystem enables entities (individuals or collectives (Agoras)) to create P2P information channels. Those channels can communicate not only money, but also other digital tokenized assets - they can also represent digital contracts.

Scientists nowadays also study the implications and use cases of blockchain for formation and governance of commons. [3]

As was mentioned throughout the text, thinkers theorizing open society in the past lacked two key elements - decentralized unalterable money and a way to measure reputation in a decentralized manner. The former was solved, the latter was not. Decentralized reputation is the last crucial element of the “framework”. It is a vitally needed tool enabling decentralized communities to create truly decentralized Agoras formed naturally in a bottom-up process.

The “framework” is therefore defined as:
Acceptance of Bitcoin
Acceptance of LNP/BP standard
Formation of Agoras and reciprocal information channels
Creation of reputation systems
It may help to see Agora Conference Pitch for a visual rundown.

Formation of Agoras and reciprocal information channels will be explained first.

Agoras are inclusive or exclusive collectives. Agora is officially formed when it runs at least 1 Bitcoin node and signs a Smart Contract (that is being formalized at the time of writing in the LNP/BP standard) with a communal private key (later on controlled by all Agorians and accessed by reaching mutual consensus) in step 1.
Within the scope of step 1 Agora sets up its:
Description (such as manifesto, whitepaper etc.)
Rules (0-X)
Reputation algorithm (will be explained soon)
Simply put - When Agora is created (by presenting its description, rules and reputation algorithm), “founding fathers” immediately lose the ability to further control the community centrally and everything has to be decided by consensual voting. The founding fathers will thus by design have much less influence over the community in contrast to similar historical events - such as glorified founding fathers of the USA and their massive influence over the newly created liberated community spanning over decades.

In step 2 Agora's creators open information channels with each other, thus starting the social network. 
In step 3 people that want to join an Agora have to perform public key exchange (ideally) through physical verification (via QR code, verify by emoji, etc.) with at least one existing Agorian, thus forming chain of trust. Depending on the set up of that Agora (meaning its rules), verifying Agorians may need to stake their reputation, which will be slashed in case a new user verified by them commits some sort of defined ill behavior. Thanks to LN's Multi-hop path finding algorithm there is no need for each person to open a channel with everyone in the Agora - all Agorians can nevertheless communicate non-chat information through existing information channels which will always lead to the desired destination due to the chain of trust addressing and gossip protocol for spreading the peer awareness. For communication of messages Agoras will self-host end-to-end encrypted chat rooms.

Simply put - A physical cryptographical verification of users mitigate the threat of botfarms - a widespread vector of abuse connected to user-based digital solutions/applications. It also connects users to Agora's chat room where internal matters can be discussed. It also connects users to the LNP/BP network. Verification with one user is enough for that, therefore larger Agoras don't have to deal with a problem, where all users have to verify each other - thus making the system socially scalable. 

The LNP/BP Agora protocol that is being formalized at the moment will allow Agorians to create many internal or external contracts. Agora can incentivize its users through a pledge of unlocking a portion of communal BTC and/or by assigning Reputation to build, validate, code, volunteer, innovate, etc. utilizing proposals. 
Simply put - people can work for and cultivate the community and in exchange receive money and/or reputation. If they fail to meet the mutually agreed upon accomplishments they run the risk of losing their money/reputation

Agoras can also sign reciprocal contracts with other Agoras. Agoras can decide whether to accept Reputation algorithms (tokens) of other Agoras completely, partly or not at all. This means that Agoras decide on a purely voluntary basis with whom (individuals, Agoras) they want to communicate information, trade, etc while coexisting with all other Agoras that decided to accept the framework.

The last piece of the puzzle is the reputation algorithm. In order to create a truly decentralized way of measuring reputation, no third party can be in control of the system. There are therefore only two ways to create such a system. People either unite and create a perfect reputation system which will be followed by everyone on a voluntary basis - highly implausible solution.
Or individual Agoras create their own reputation algorithms which are voluntarily followed by their members. This naturally creates a free market competition of reputation algorithms. Agoras test what works and what does not. Agoras can decide which reputation algorithms they are going to accept and which are flawed from their perspective. Agoras will form lessons learned databases and improve their reputation algorithms over the span of their existence.

The reputation algorithm will effectively be a set of rules formalizing in advance (with possible “soft-forks” allowed) when an individual should receive or lose a reputation token. Such rules can for example be:
data hosting
liquidity and network providing through incoming information channels 
physical/digital tasks validated by reputable members
Simply put - communities have to transparently publish their rules defining how reputation is acquired. Those rules can be defined anyhow the community sees fit. Community can consensually decide to change those rules in the future. Possible changes to rules in general and their implementation is slower than in small centralized systems (such as corporations), but much faster and more flexible than in the large systems (such as States).

Multiple utility use cases exist for the reputation tokens. They allow weighted voting within related Agora and all other Agoras unconditionally accepting those reputation tokens. The complexity of such voting is set up in advance during the Agora's creation. 
Within Agora's complexity may be privileges associated with certain amounts of reputation tokens, such as:
proposing tasks
signing up for a specialized task
creating projects
delegation of the reputation tokens
Simply put - Agora is free to decide whether it will follow a non-hierarchical approach (all users have same rights), or whether it shall somehow use hierarchy (user has to have enough reputation to access some functions). Agora can therefore follow communist/democratical doctrine and attribute the same strength of vote to all users, or it can decide that reputation will increase users voting strength.

On top of that, when an Agorian for any reason decides that he shall part with his Agora, he can opt-out by burning all of his reputation and in exchange receive an adequate portion of Agora's communal BTC pool. Note that reputation tokens are untransferable, untradable and apart from the actual opt-out function fully separated from money itself  A reader has to wait for the technical whitepaper of the Agora LNP/BP protocol for a more complex explanation of how exactly this reputation system will be formalized.
Simply put - users agree and sign to the rules prior to joining. Rules can later on be consensually changed. If this change is of such an importance to a user that he feels like the community has changed too much to his detriment, he can decide to burn all bridges and be financially rewarded for his past effort. This feature stops exploitation of a minority of users.

This effectively means that when the coding of Agora protocol is finished, communities will have at their disposal following tools:
trouble-free way to utilize the unalterable Bitcoin database for storage of hashes of self-hosted digital data (providing undisputable validation of its integrity in the future)
overall inheritance of Bitcoin's security/decentralization in exchange for negligible fractions of BTC and flawless option of integration of BTC as a payment system (a truly decentralized unalterable liberal monetary system).
A way to securely, trustlessly and transparently create reputation models with all the up-to-date technologies mitigating coercion abuse and corruption. 
A voluntary option to accept/deny individual reputation models (a truly decentralized voluntary bottom-up created reputation systems)

Conclusion
The text focused on an overlooked topic of decentralized formation of societies. It presented various philosophers and their ideas and explained through them the dangers of blind centralization and historical consequences of the authoritarian status quo.

It delved into historical efforts that contributed to the possible manifestation of transition to decentralized status quo running in parallel to the centralized one. It tried to show the possibility that the traditional endless ideological war present in the Left/Right political system could be a lesser issue in a decentralized environment. The text also presented the technological innovations that emerged from those efforts.

It presented Bitcoin and its LNP/BP standard of protocols. It explained why it is a perfect candidate that can be utilized as the decentralized monetary system and why unalterable money has to be a foundation of decentralized societies. Bitcoin was also presented as the only decentralized mathematically proven immutable database that can hold all sorts of hashed data.

It was presented that all the efforts of parallel decentralized communities did not lead to discovery of a functional reputation system, which is considered to be a necessary condition of success of such societies. In the last chapter of this text a framework for creation of decentralized reputation algorithms was presented utilizing the LNP/BP standard of protocols - mainly its immutability and scalability.

Therefore decentralized societies now have two very tangible instruments - unalterable money/database and a way to form “internet of reputation models” - that greatly increases their viability, longevity and chances of success.

Final words
Practical execution of this theory would require massive political commitment of individuals in a bottom-up process. According to Ulrich Beck the incentive to get involved in such a process rises within a risk society. Risk society is defined by Beck as a society which has to find a “systematic way of dealing with growing hazards and insecurities”. This tension causes a rise in sub-politics (or bottom-up politics) and activism movements. Bottom up politics refers to political activity happening outside of the traditional “left and right” political system. Beck claims that in risk society there is ample evidence of citizens outside of dominant ruling structures actually influencing social change. He argues that it is possible for a group of individuals to cause outcomes that seem implausible given the social constraints imposed by power structures. [5]
It is important to note that society has arguably reached the biggest “risk factor” in decades. Some sort of information, political and economical war mainly in digital space has been going on for quite some time even in “civilized” parts of the world. But now the war has shifted to the “good old” trench warfare, urban warfare, guerilla warfare and physical extermination. This “risk factor” will stay very high for years to come, which may urge bottom-up processes.
